---
date: 0200-01-03
category: guide
layout: guide
title: Offline use
---
MapBox offers unrestricted control for caching [MapBox Streets](/maps) on mobile devices with the [MapBox iOS SDK](/mobile), supporting both app developers who want fine-grained control of app storage size and performance, as well as for users who want the optimum use of bandwidth and the best performance for the maps in an app.

### Summary

- **You may** cache maps as much as you'd like.
- **You may** cache maps for as long as you'd like.
- **You may not** run a proxy or intermediate cache between MapBox and devices.
- **You may not** further redistribute maps from a device cache.

<p><small>For the full details see our <a href='{{site.baseurl}}/tos'>Terms of Service</a>.</small></p>

### How tiles are loaded

When a map view is shown and the user starts panning and zooming around to explore an area, the SDK requests the necessary tiles. The `RMMapBoxSource` tile source checks its local cache of tiles before ever trying to request data over the network, so if a tile has been downloaded recently, it is instantly recalled and used to load the map.

### How the tile cache works

By default, the Route-Me rendering engine stores the 1,000 most recently downloaded tile images. Once more room is needed, the oldest tiles are deleted from cache. You can also remove all tiles whenever desired with the `removeAllCachedImages` method on the `RMMapView`. You can also manage cache deletion based on the age of tiles in the cache.

For example, creating the `RMTileCache` with an `expiryPeriod` of `604,800` (60 seconds `x` 60 minutes `x` 24 hours `x` 7 days) will cause tiles to stay in the cache no longer than a week, without regard to the number of tiles, before the SDK will automatically delete the older tiles to keep things tidy.
