---
date: 0200-02-06
category: guide
layout: guide
title: Data layers
---
When it comes to showing map overlay data, there are two general approaches -- drawing the data atop the map tiles or "baking in" the data directly into the map tile images. 

Suppose you have a KML file of location points that you'd like to put on a map. We'll look at both options and see how they differ in approach. 

## Drawing data

When you draw the data, you parse the points out of the KML file and then use a platform-native drawing facility in order to draw them onto a map overlay. For example, using the [MapBox iOS SDK]({{site.baseurl}}/mobile), you would use the `RMMarker` object to display a point atop the tiles that pans and zooms with the map. On Apple's MapKit, this could be accomplished with `MKPointAnnotation` and its corresponding on-demand view. 

There some are advantages to this approach: 

 * Possible animation of points and paths. 
 * On-demand creation of visuals depending on the current situation. 
 * Customizability of appearance at runtime. 

As well as some disadvantages: 

 * Having many features on the map can increase processor and memory overhead. 
 * Code is required to draw the features, as well as determine when to show or hide them. 
 * Drawing implementation varies from platform to platform. 

## "Baking in" data

Instead of drawing point, line, and other geographic features at runtime, using a map design studio like [TileMill]({{site.baseurl}}/tilemill) allows you to bring your data into the environment where you are creating tiles. Then, you can style the data right along with other, underlying features such as borders and roads. Lastly, you export the features directly into the map tile images. 

Advantages of baking in data: 

 * Speed and performance - map tiles already contain the overlay details. 
 * Cross-platform support - map images look the same on any implementation. 
 * No client-side code is required to display the features atop the underlying details. 

Disadvantages of baking in data: 

 * Limited customizability in the client for the feature data. 
 * Unable to toggle subsections of filters on or off; would require multiple tile sets. 
 * Requires upfront acquisition and preprocessing of data before use in the client. 
